Let's do an overview of the code that we used in order to build out our testing application.
So it a little bit of styling there to make it look not as boring.
And then up at the top we had our two male elements.
So first of all we needed an input to grab you or else.
Then also we needed the user to be able to select a source or a resource that we wanted to make our
AJAX call what we know with Ajax there's Getz and posts a couple of different methods.
So one of the user to be able to select that and if they're posting then we had a forum here with some
inputs and these inputs are dynamic so we could add as many inputs as we want because we're serializing
this form using a query serialise and then also we've got a button to trigger off our Ajax request.
And then an output area to put that content we connected to two different libraries.
Javascript libraries are very popular for Ajax So there's a query of course and X-ers.
So there are two different libraries and we cooked them both up.
So I've got linked to both of those.
And then we needed to make sure that our dorm content loaded before we added in our listener to that
input.
So that's where we've wrapped it with the DOM content loaded.
This is the same thing as the query does with Dot document ready and then we've got our event listener.
So once the button gets clicked this button over here we send off and we trigger a request to make request
function.
So it's the first one we have here.
Over here we grab some of those element information and we can get rid of this one as well.
So the console logs we're using those in order to help work with our content with our Javascript.
So we use a switch statement.
So if it's a query that sends over to this function I close to this function fetch to this one and javascript
to the last one that we built out the functions.
So we've got our fetch function.
First of all it checks to see if it's a post.
If it's a post we need some parameters that we need to add into the request and that's the only real
difference between the get and the post with the post we're sending over.
Body method as well as headers by default it's going to use get.
So we didn't have to worry about it when we were just using get where returning the content the response
information in a Jaison format where catching any errors if they fail and then we're outputting a response
here.
If everything works properly and we're using a function that we created output.
So this one allows us to nice and neatly output that content in nice visible format.
So that's what we're doing over there.
Next we looked at X-C always.
So X-ers allowed us to do promises as well.
But this is still using a char object.
So the javascript S.H. are object whereas fetches newer technology so it's not using that anymore.
And we needed to specify a method to your L data so it actually didn't matter if it's a get or a post
if it's a get it will still take in that data and information even though it's not receiving it or it
doesn't have the capability to receive it on the server and so it depends on the end point.
Same thing we're outputting our response information.
Jay Correy So we had our AJAX call and G.
Cory we also up here we have our catch.
So if it fails over here we have our catch if it fails and Jay query as well.
We used that done so waited till we completed the AJAX call and then we looked at our response information
send that back into output and Javascript was the same thing.
So we're using that SML HTP request object we split off status from ready state because we know that
whenever we submit we get a different status error so we get to a to 200 so we don't want to look for
200.
We want to look for two one.
So that was the only real difference there.
And then over here whenever we're setting up we're opening up that a char object that get was slightly
different than the post.
And we also had to specify headers.
So we have a different content type and we need to set that within Javascript.
And then over here we had the output.
So this was basically outputting that content.
And also I wanted to quickly add here that so we've got our output of the content and I wanted to console
log out some of these values here.
So let's do that and quickly do a quick update so that instead of just Konsole logging out the response
text.
Let's do a little bit more.
So the response text could be in an object format and I'm going to do a console log and I'll make it
colorful.
So to do something a little bit different.
So it's not the air plain old boring black text.
So this time let's put the status and over here let's put the a.
So we know that these are all coming in in text format so we can make them colorful with the objects.
You can't make them colorful so you just do the percentage sign.
See and you do that before you enter it and then you comma separated out so you can apply some stylings
So let's make this one green and we'll do the same for the ex-teacher value.
So this should brighten up our day within our consul and add that one and maybe for this one let's make
this one read.
So it's always going to be read.
That one's always going to be green regardless.
So that's it.
And then we just put our text.
We what we did over here is we check to see if it's a string format because we always want to do the
Gees on string a fly.
So if the response text is a string format then what we do is we turn it back into an object so that
we can string a fight again.
And if we didn't do that then we get a bunch of extra backslashes.
So some of the responses.
So the only one that was actually not converting it into adjacent object was the regular javascript
SML HGP request.
So that was the only one that was sending it in as text and the rest of them they were smart enough
actually to know that there was a difference between Java Jaison and text.
So now let's try it.
So I've got a few other API.
So we've got our default one here so we can make requests and there's are more colorful Konsole content
go to get.
We can make some requests there as well.
Here's another API so we should be able to now just simply deposit new API eyes and get response information.
That one worked and we can try it against jete query and we really shouldn't have any difference now
because we've got them set up running the same way.
So that's basically how we can do that.
So it's try one more API.
So these are just some open API eyes and you can literally now that you've got this application.
You can try any one of the methods in order to make your AJAX calls and they all seem to be working
nicely.
These ones don't have posts.
So we're going to run into an error if we try to post.
So this one we've got an error through the error.
This one throws the error down here in Javascript.
So we get undefined basically for the response text.
So now it's up to you.
So go ahead try the sote use the code that we've provided in the lessons and try it for yourself.
Also try different you or else.
And this is now a good handy testing tool as well as it give you a lot of practice running and creating
different types of Ajax requests.